# Automating tests
Let's automate running tests in a github action.

It's okay if you're not familiar with javascript. I am just using some basic examples.
For this tutorial I am using plain js and jest for unit testing.

Open a command line and type `npm test` and it should run the aforementioned tests...

If you weren't able to you probably need to run `npm install` to ensure you have all the necessary packages!
Try running `npm test` again if you haven't already.

Uh oh, there is a failure. That sucks. I don't want to bear the bad new so let's indirectly tell our fellow dev with an action.

First we need our action to have access to our repo to run tests:
```yaml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v4
  - name: setup node.js
    uses: actions/setup-node@v4
    with:
      node-version: '20'
```
Ok so we are using actions that exist in github by default:
- actions/checkout@v4 - which allows our action to checkout the repo. Much like we do when we checkout branches in git
- actions/setup-node@v4 - this is so we have node ready to use. You can specify the version you want to use with the `with` keyword and supply the `node-version`

We can create an action to run things like `echo` so it makes sense that we could do `npm` commands too. But just like maybe what happened to you, we need to install dependencies.

## exercise
Create two additional steps:
1. One for installing the packages with `npm install`
2. Another for running the tests with `npm test`

Remember to checkout a new branch and commit and push your changes there. It's the only way to get your changes into main with the rules we put in place.
Just modify the existing workflow you have.